Caja Hide
=============

Extension for Caja to hide files without renaming them.

Adapted from Nautilus Hide, copyright (C) 2015 Bruno Nova <brunomb.nova@gmail.com> <https://bitbucket.org/brunonova/nautilus-hide/src#clone>, and Nemo Hide, copyright (C) 2015 KDB2 (Emmanuel) <https://github.com/KDB2/Nemo-hide>.

This program is free software: you can redistribute it and/or modify
it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by
the Free Software Foundation, either version 3 of the License, or (at your option) any later version.



Description
-----------

Caja Hide is a simple Python extension for the Caja file manager that
adds options to the right-click menu to hide or unhide files.

The extension hides the files without renaming them (i.e. without prefixing a
dot ('.') or suffixing a tilde ('~')).
It does that by adding their names to the folder's `.hidden` file, which
Caja reads to hide the listed files the next time you open or refresh the
folder.


Details
-------

In Linux, and other UNIX-like systems, a file with a name that starts by a
dot ('.') is considered a *hidden file*.
Some file managers also hide files that end with a tilde ('~'), which are
considered *backup files*.

To hide an existing file, you would have to rename it. That's not always
feasible or desirable.

Some file managers, like Caja, offer an **alternative way of hiding files**:
you create a text file that lists, line-by-line, the names of all the files you
want to hide in a particular folder (directory) and save it in that folder with the name `.hidden`. The next time
you open or refresh that folder, those files will not be visible.

This extension simply uses that `.hidden` file to hide files. When you choose to
hide a file, its name is added to the folder's `.hidden` file. When you choose
to unhide it, the name is removed.
Caja will automatically refresh upon hiding or unhiding a file so that the file will either disappear or re-appear.

Please note that Caja Hide can also be used to hide folders.


Installation
------------
#### Dependencies:
Install these first.
 - caja
 - python 2.7
 - python-caja (the python 2 version. Depending on your distro it may be called `python2-caja`)
 - xautomation

### Debian
a) Download source code  
```
git clone https://github.com/Fred-Barclay/Caja-Hide.git
cd Caja-Wipe
dpkg-buildpackage
cd .. && sudo dpkg -i install caja-hide_0.8.9_all.deb
```
b) Restart caja  
`caja -q`


### Other Distros (per-user installation)
```
mkdir -p ~/.local/share/caja-python/extensions/
git clone https://github.com/Fred-Barclay/Caja-Hide.git
cd Caja-Hide/src
cp caja-hide.py ~/.local/share/caja-python/extensions/caja-hide.py
```
Restart Caja  
`caja -q`
